Now for this section
I prepared another demo project
and this now is a different project
than what we had in the previous course sections.
This is a REST API built with Node and Express,
and you don't need to understand Node and Express
to follow along, of course.
But what is important about this demo project,
which you, of course, find attached to this video, is that
in some code files, this project uses environment variables.
For example, here, whenever you see this process.env
thing here in this Node Express code,
we are using environment variables.
And that of course brings up one important question.
What exactly are environment variables?
Well, the idea behind environment variables is
that in your code you may have certain variables
or values that are dynamic.
For example, the password that's used
for logging into a database,
so that's used for connecting your server to a database.
That password is maybe not always the same.
Instead, the concrete password value might depend
on the environment in which your application
or website is running.
For example, you could have a testing
and a production environment, and during testing
you might be connecting to a testing database
that has different credentials than your production database
and they offer different password values might be needed
for these different environments
in which your web server is running.
And that's not some made-up scenario.
Instead, this is quite common.
Back in this demo project which I'm providing to you,
this is the exact use case we have here.
I got four variables here, or constants,
which are used in this code, which actually get
dynamic values from environment variables.
These all-caps names here are the environment variables,
though the name is totally up to you.
It doesn't have to be all caps, but that is a convention
you often see in different languages and environments.
And the idea is that this connection string here,
which is used for establishing a connection
from that backend application here to the database,
the idea is that that string is constructed dynamically,
and that we use maybe a different username,
a different password, and even a different database address
for different environments
in which this application might be running.
So that we can, for example, run our tests
against some testing database
and we don't accidentally change production data.
We don't actually work with real user data during our tests.
That's the idea behind environment variables.
And this application here uses environment variables
in this database.js file, but also in the app.js file here
for configuring which port will be used
for listening for incoming requests.
And also in this test config file here
where we also specify this port
which tells the testing tool where to find our server.
Because here I'm using Playwright
which is a end-to-end testing tool, which is used
for running some automated tests against this API here.
So that's what's going on in this project,
and the key thing here, also for this section,
are these environment variables
because in this project you also find an example
of GitHub Actions Workflow, which is not finished yet.
And this Workflow runs our tests, for example.
It runs these automated tests, and of course,
that means that the application server must be started
so that the tests can then work with that server.
Now, since that server must be started,
values for the database address
and the database credentials must be provided.
And those values must be provided
in our Workflow whilst our Workflow is running.
So we need some way of providing environment variable values
as part of our GitHub Actions Workflow here.
And that is something you will definitely encounter sooner
or later when working with GitHub Actions
or any other CICD provider that you need to provide
environment variable values, and that's therefore
what we'll explore in the next lectures.